Let's wrap up and summarize this module.
Demand management does not involve running or the execution of the work,
but it does involve selecting the right work,
the demand to execute in support of the request.
We made a very killer distinction between demand management and work management.
I have consulted in many companies and they are so
focused on getting the work done, which is good,
of course, but they're never even thinking about the demand side of the equation,
and that is why I have separated out these last two modules
to focus on demand and its distinction.
Naturally,
there is one process into demand management process flows and is
integrated with the work management processes.
So this is a great segue.
The next three modules on work management are the modules
that will actually get the work done.
So it's the processes we'll discuss to actually get the work done.
Are you just reacting to work?
Now as a professional, are you reacting more or planning more?
Here's what I mean.
Being reactive,
that's acting in response to a situation rather than creating or controlling it.
It's unplanned.
Are the things you do typically unplanned?
Are the things you do typically pushed to you,
that is you didn't go out and get the demand to work,
but instead it came to you?
So examples of that would be operations because they are
likely to be more unplanned than planned,
and to some degree, projects as well.
Now, onto planning.
Are you more proactive?
That's creating or controlling the situation by causing something to
happen rather than responding to it after it has happened.
Are the things you do mostly planned?
Are they pulled by you to you,
that is you went out and got the demand and the work?
Examples of that might be initiatives, and also projects, of course.
This course has provided the processes to help you deal and and manage not only
the reactive side and the proactive side of demand and work.
Now let's look at another takeaway of this module.
I am not suggesting that there's anything wrong per se about unplanned work.
That is life,
but the takeaways are as follows: Try to plan as much work as
possible and be proactive in determining them,
and also the demand in work management processes
are different between operations, projects,
and initiatives based on their nature of their work.
At a high level, they're pretty much the same.
To get in deeper,
they do have different processes and you need to be aware of those as well.
Now let's contrast our backlogs.
Initiatives Backlog, typically only one in a company.
In fact, there should only be one.
To lead a company effectively,
you need one and only one set of strategies from the top,
and the grooming cycle is probably semiannual or
annual because these are such large, chunky activities.
Next, the project backlogs.
Multiple project backlogs.
Maybe the backlogs are spread out over an organization.
Maybe there are one or more project management
offices running a few projects in each.
Maybe there is a program management office running programs with multiple
projects in operations organizations within that program.
Now project oversight should be brought together as much as possible and
consolidated to ensure resources are best allocated,
and the grooming cycle for those is typically monthly,
maybe quarterly.
On the operation side for those backlogs, again, multiple backlogs.
These are typically scattered around an organization and if possible
should be brought together and consolidated as much as possible to
ensure resources are best allocated, and the grooming cycle,
daily, possibly even twice a day,
maybe once in the morning to kick off the day and once in the afternoon to make
sure any adjustments or course corrections may be needed.
All right.
Now let's recap our key topics of this module.
Now let's summarize the key topics in this module.
The importance of process.
Remember, if you can't describe what you're doing as a process,
you really don't know what you're doing,
and I strongly believe in that.
Demand type.
We have operations, projects, and initiatives.
Recall I divided the world of work, if you will,
into three broad categories to simplify the approach to
better understanding demand management.
Here I recommended you creating your steering group of line-of-business leaders,
SMEs, Subject-Matter Experts,
to help frame and construct the initiatives into project candidates.
Tickets.
For operations, we discussed that everything,
verbal instructions, phone calls, emails,
issues are logged, tracked,
and management in the system for complete visibility of your team,
your management, and your customers.
Operations Backlog and Grooming.
We discussed that your queue of work known as your
backlog must be regularly groomed,
that is each item analyzed based on known attributes to either be
approved to work or maybe placed on hold or reprioritized.
Projects are handled very similarly to operations and work
may arrive from a management directive,
tickets from ops that meet the ops versus project
thresholds that you have established, and projects from initiatives.
Project Backlog and Grooming.
Again, like operations,
project demand utilizes a backlog and grooming technique as well.
Initiatives drive strategic vision,
and therefore they drive the key projects in your company.
Portfolio management is quite challenging indeed.
You are taking a very broad ngo-syun,
sometimes even fuzzy requirements and you need to boil
them down into concrete actions, such as projects.
Portfolio and Project Grooming for Initiatives.
As with operations and projects,
projects identified by the initiatives need to be groomed.
This process is different from ops grooming, but it's the same concept.
We utilize a graph contrasting value to the business
against ability of IT to execute.
As you can see, there is a whole world of demand management,
and I hope and trust you have a new appreciation of this topic and can
see that the best way to manage it is to have a good,
solid, and well-understood process. Now, let's move on to work management in the next few modules.